<pre>
  Niobio Cash Improvement proposal
  NCIP: 8
  Title: URI Scheme
  Author: Helder Garcia <helder.garcia@gmail.com>, Jayder Franca
  Status: Draft
  Type: Standards
  Created: 2018-07-19
  License: PD
</pre>

==Abstract==

This NCIP proposes a URI scheme for making Niobio Cash payments. It is based in [https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0021.mediawiki BIP0021].

==Motivation==

The purpose of this URI scheme is to enable users to easily make payments by simply clicking links on webpages or scanning QR Codes.

==Specification==

=== General Rules ===

Niobio Cash clients MUST NOT act on URIs without getting the user's authorization.
They SHOULD require the user to manually approve each payment individually, though in some cases they MAY allow the user to automatically make this decision.

=== Operating system integration ===
Graphical Niobio Cash clients SHOULD register themselves as the handler for the "niobiocash:" URI scheme by default, if no other handler is already registered. If there is already a registered handler, they MAY prompt the user to change it once when they first run the client.

=== General Format ===

Niobio Cash URIs follow the general format for URIs as set forth in RFC 3986. The path component consists of a Niobio Cash address, and the query component provides additional payment options.

Elements of the query component may contain characters outside the valid range. These must first be encoded according to UTF-8, and then each octet of the corresponding UTF-8 sequence must be percent-encoded as described in RFC 3986.

=== ABNF Grammar ===

(See also [[#Simpler_Syntax|a simpler representation of syntax]])

 niobiocashurn     = "niobiocash:" niobiocashaddress [ "?" niobiocashparams ]
 niobiocashaddress = *base58
 niobiocashparams  = niobiocashparam [ "&" niobiocashparams ]
 niobiocashparam   = [ amountparam / paymentidparam/ labelparam / anonparam / descparam / priorityparam ]
 amountparam    = "amount=" *digit
 paymentidparam     = "payment_id=" *qchar
 labelparam     = "label=" *qchar
 anonparam    = "anon=" *digit
 descparam   = "desc=" *qchar
 priorityparam = "priority=" ("low" / "medium" / "high")

Here, "qchar" corresponds to valid characters of an RFC 3986 URI query component, excluding the "=" and "&" characters, which this NCIP takes as separators.

The scheme component ("niobiocash:") is case-insensitive, and implementations must accept any combination of uppercase and lowercase letters.

=== Query Keys ===

*address: Niobio Cash address
*amount: Amount of base Niobio Cash units
*label: Label for that address (e.g. name of receiver)
*payment_id: Payment ID in hexadecimal format
*anon: Anonymity level
*desc: Message that describes the transaction to the user ([[#Examples|see examples below]])
*priority: Priority of the transaction. It can be used values "low", "medium" or "high", with progressively higher fees. Actual values of the fees is a choice of client implementation.

====Transfer Amount====

If an amount is provided, it MUST be specified in integer NBR.
All amounts MUST contain no commas or periods. Clients should consider the 8 decimal places.
I.e. 100000000 is treated as 1 NBR, 10000000 is 0.1 NBR, and 1.00000000 is an invalid amount.

Niobio Cash clients MAY display the amount in any format that is not intended to deceive the user.
They SHOULD choose a format that is foremost least confusing.
For example, so long as the majority of users work in NBR units, values should always be displayed in NBR by default, even if mNBR would otherwise be a more logical interpretation of the amount.

== Rationale ==

===Payment Identifiers===

Current best practices are that a unique address should be used for every transaction.
Therefore, a URI scheme should not represent an exchange of personal information, but a one-time payment.

===Completeness===

The URI must provide as much data as possible to make the payment straightforward and simple for the sender. If all parameters are fulfilled the sender's action will be simply to click a SEND button.

== Appendix ==

===Simpler Syntax===

This section is non-normative and does not cover all possible syntax.
Please see the [[#ABNF_Grammar |ABNF Grammar ]] above for the normative syntax.

[foo] means optional, &lt;bar&gt; are placeholders.

 <nowiki>niobiocash:<address>[?amount=<amount>][&label=<label>][&payment_id=<payment id>][&anon=<anon>][&desc=<description>]</nowiki>

===Examples===

Just the address:
 niobiocash:N76KUSqbeYPajqYvbv2XeNGpxCtw2zvPjPfDh2aWa24yiCF5mQ68vfF5oCUdW1GiExNMJmGHtLf6qNGGjhPwDe2H5yShrVi

Address with name:
 niobiocash:N76KUSqbeYPajqYvbv2XeNGpxCtw2zvPjPfDh2aWa24yiCF5mQ68vfF5oCUdW1GiExNMJmGHtLf6qNGGjhPwDe2H5yShrVi?label=Jayder-Franca

Request 10.5 NBR to "Jayder-Franca":
 niobiocash:N76KUSqbeYPajqYvbv2XeNGpxCtw2zvPjPfDh2aWa24yiCF5mQ68vfF5oCUdW1GiExNMJmGHtLf6qNGGjhPwDe2H5yShrVi?amount=1050000000&label=Jayder-Franca&priority=high

Request 200 NBR with description:
 niobiocash:N76KUSqbeYPajqYvbv2XeNGpxCtw2zvPjPfDh2aWa24yiCF5mQ68vfF5oCUdW1GiExNMJmGHtLf6qNGGjhPwDe2H5yShrVi?amount=20000000000&label=Jayder-Franca&desc=Donation%20for%20project%20xyz

Characters must be URI encoded properly.

==Copyright==

This document is placed in the public domain.
